1

 

7— „---i„ --.-„.--.—-a- a w Ι susq——

 

more maturitie of judgement‚ though lesse pregnancie
of invention: relishing more of the lampe than those
lighter measures which I had formerly penned ; where-
in Ι grew as strong in the opinion and reputation of
others as before. This 1 must confesse, begot in mee
a glowing heat and conceit of my selfe: but this I
held an easie erronr, and the more dispensable‚
because arising from the infirmitie of nature. How-
soever, Ι can very well remember (and what other
followers can bee to such a remembrancer but penitent
teares and incessant feares) that I held it in those
dayes an incomparable grace to be styled one of the
Wits. Where, if at any time invited to a publique
feast, or some other meeting of the Muses, wee hated
nothing more than losing time; reserving ever some
select houres of that solemnity, to make proofe of

· our conceits in a present provision of epigrams,

 

anagrams, with other expressive (and many times
offensive) fancies.

“But Wits so ill employed were like weapons put
into mad mens hands. They hurt much, benefitted
little: distasting more than they pleased3 for they
liked onely such mens palats‚ as were male-contents,
and critically affected. By this time Ι had got an eye in
the world 3 and a finger in the street. There goes an
Author! One of the wits 1²⁷ *

From the Inns of Court he appears to have adven-
tured awhile among the merchants‚ and finally to have
left court and city to turn honest countryman, his
parents having settled a competent estate upon him.
This determination was made soon after the decease

of his father ;† an event which probably led to an
arrangement whereby possession was given, at no very

'¹' Spiritval Spicerie, 1638.
† See his epitaph, infrd.

